Ethiopia - Import Requirements and Documentation Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. For U.S. Businesses Export Solutions Overview Get Ready to Export Exporter Resources Client Success Stories Events and Webinars Research Center Overview Visual Data Center Research by Industry Research By Country Research By Region Trade Data and Analysis Public APIs Regulations & Agreements Overview U.S. Export Regulations Foreign Regulations Trade Agreements Resolve a Trade Problem Overview Resolve a Foreign Trade Barrier U.S. Antidumping & Countervailing Duties Facing a Foreign AD/CVD or Safeguard Investigation Fight Unfair Foreign Trade Subsidies Industry Monitoring & Analysis Protect Your Intellectual Property Advocating for U.S. Business Abroad Attend an Event Overview Trade Event Search Network & Learn at Events Meet Buyers at Events Trade Missions Services for Trade Event Organizers Foreign Direct Investment Attraction Events Let Our Experts Help Overview New Exporter Services Experienced Exporter Services Event Organizer Services Associations & EDO Services Rural Company Services Foreign-Trade Zones Partner with ITA BuyUSA Overview Find a Supplier - Textiles and Apparel Invest in the USA Make Connections Upcoming Events SelectUSA Investment Summit Find Economic Development Organization Find Federal Agencies Find Service Providers Our Programs SelectUSA Tech Select Global Women in Tech (SGWIT) Investment Advisory Council (IAC) Interagency Investment Working Group (IIWG) Research Center Investor Guide Industry Overview Hub Workforce Development Fact Sheets Reports and Publications Online Data Tools Let Our Experts Help About Select USA Services Contact Us Additional Resources State Business Incentives Database Careers and Internships News About Us Contact Us Search ITA Search Menu Search ITA Search For U.S. Businesses Export Solutions Overview Get Ready to Export Exporter Resources Client Success Stories Events and Webinars Research Center Overview Visual Data Center Research by Industry Research By Country Research By Region Trade Data and Analysis Public APIs Regulations & Agreements Overview U.S. Export Regulations Foreign Regulations Trade Agreements Resolve a Trade Problem Overview Resolve a Foreign Trade Barrier U.S. Antidumping & Countervailing Duties Facing a Foreign AD/CVD or Safeguard Investigation Fight Unfair Foreign Trade Subsidies Industry Monitoring & Analysis Protect Your Intellectual Property Advocating for U.S. Business Abroad Attend an Event Overview Trade Event Search Network & Learn at Events Meet Buyers at Events Trade Missions Services for Trade Event Organizers Foreign Direct Investment Attraction Events Let Our Experts Help Overview New Exporter Services Experienced Exporter Services Event Organizer Services Associations & EDO Services Rural Company Services Foreign-Trade Zones Partner with ITA BuyUSA Overview Find a Supplier - Textiles and Apparel Invest in the USA Make Connections Upcoming Events SelectUSA Investment Summit Find Economic Development Organization Find Federal Agencies Find Service Providers Our Programs SelectUSA Tech Select Global Women in Tech (SGWIT) Investment Advisory Council (IAC) Interagency Investment Working Group (IIWG) Research Center Investor Guide Industry Overview Hub Workforce Development Fact Sheets Reports and Publications Online Data Tools Let Our Experts Help About Select USA Services Contact Us Additional Resources State Business Incentives Database Careers and Internships News About Us Contact Us Home Country Commercial Guides Ethiopia - Import Requirements and Documentation Ethiopia Country Commercial Guide Learn about the market conditions, opportunities, regulations, and business conditions in Ethiopia, prepared by at U.S. Embassies worldwide by Commerce Department, State Department and other U.S. agencies’ professionals. Ethiopia Country Commercial Guide Doing Business in Market Overview Market Challenges Market Opportunities Market Entry Strategy Leading Sectors for US Exports & Investments Aviation Roads, Railways and Logistics Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Energy Agro-processing Education and Training Services Healthcare Agricultural Sectors Customs, Regulations & Standards Trade Barriers Import Tariffs Import Requirements and Documentation Labeling/Marking Requirements U.S. Export Controls Temporary Entry Prohibited & Restricted Imports Customs Regulations Trade Standards Trade Agreements Licensing Requirements for Professional Services Selling US Products & Services Distribution and Sales Channels eCommerce Selling Factors and Techniques Trade Financing Protecting Intellectual Property Digital Economy Digital Economy Business Travel Business Travel Investment Climate Statement Investment Climate Statement Select Country Guide Import Requirements and Documentation Last published date: 2024-01-18 Imports to Ethiopia require: Agency agreement A bank permit A bill of lading or airway bill Certificate of origin Commercial invoices Customs import declaration Foreign exchange authorization Import license Insurance certificate Packing list Tax identification number (TIN) certificate Pre-shipment inspection clean report of findings Transit document Value added tax (VAT) Certificate. In July 2022, the GOE decentralized the import licensing process and delegated the authority to issue import licenses to regional state trade bureaus. Most regions have operationalized the new online import licensing process, although the new process remains unavailable in some regions due to structural issues such as poor Internet access. In addition to obtaining an import business license, importers must obtain an import registration number before bringing products into the country. Imports of food or drug items must receive additional certification from the Ethiopian Food and Drug Administration without regard to the risk of the food or drug product. Trading companies must submit a proposal to the Ministry of Trade and Regional Integration (MOTRI) or regional authorities to obtain a currency exchange permit certificate, which includes obtaining a letter of credit for the total value of an import transaction and applying for an import permit, before placing an order. The new online process typically takes about 30 minutes after all required paperwork is provided. However, even with a letter of credit, import permits are not always granted, and there are often delays of several months or even over a year before an importer is allocated foreign exchange. Medicines, medical supplies, and medical equipment must be registered with the Ethiopian Food and Drug Authority (EFDA) before entering to Ethiopia. A Certificate of Analysis (COA) is also required for processed food and pharmaceuticals. For some items depending on their type, specific agency permissions may be required. Plants or plant products, including seeds, agricultural inputs such as chemicals, pesticides. and fertilizers cannot be imported to Ethiopia unless registered and duly authorized for import by the Ministry of Agriculture. &times; Global Business Navigator Chatbot Beta Welcome to the Global Business Navigator, an artificial intelligence (AI) Chatbot from the International Trade Administration (ITA). This tool, currently in beta version testing, is designed to provide general information on the exporting process and the resources available to assist new and experienced U.S. exporters. The Chatbot, developed using Microsoft’s Azure AI services, is trained on ITA’s export-related content and aims to quickly get users the information they need. The Chatbot is intended to make the benefits of exporting more accessible by understanding non-expert language, idiomatic expressions, and foreign languages. Limitations As a beta product, the Chatbot is currently being tested and its responses may occasionally produce inaccurate or incomplete information. The Chatbot is trained to decline out of scope or inappropriate requests. The Chatbot’s knowledge is limited to the public information on the Export Solutions web pages of Trade.gov, which covers a wide range of topics on exporting. While it cannot provide responses specific to a company’s product or a specific foreign market, its reference pages will guide you to other relevant government resources and market research. Always double-check the Chatbot’s responses using the provided references or by visiting the Export Solutions web pages on Trade.gov. Do not use its responses as legal or professional advice. Inaccurate advice from the Chatbot would not be a defense to violating any export rules or regulations. Privacy The Chatbot does not collect information about users and does not use the contents of users’ chat history to learn new information. All feedback is anonymous. Please do not enter personally identifiable information (PII), sensitive, or proprietary information into the Chatbot. Your conversations will not be connected to other interactions or accounts with ITA. Conversations with the Chatbot may be reviewed to help ITA improve the tool and address harmful, illegal, or otherwise inappropriate questions. Translation The Chatbot supports a wide range of languages. Because the Chatbot is trained in English and responses are translated, you should verify the translation. For example, the Chatbot may have difficulty with acronyms, abbreviations, and nuances in a language other than English. Privacy Program | Information Quality Guidelines | Accessibility Footer For U.S. Businesses Export Solutions Research Center Regulations & Agreements Resolve a Trade Problem Attend an Event News & Highlights Let Our Experts Help BuyUSA Find a Supplier - Textiles & Apparel Invest in the U.S. Make Connections Our Programs Research Center Let Our Experts Help Additional Resources About Us Contact Us Careers Data & API Site Map International Trade Administration U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20230 Connect With ITA Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn The International Trade Administration , U.S. Department of Commerce , manages this global trade site to provide access to ITA information on promoting trade and investment, strengthening the competitiveness of U.S. industry, and ensuring fair trade and compliance with trade laws and agreements. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein. This site contains PDF documents. A PDF reader is available from Adobe Systems Incorporated. USA.gov | FOIA | Privacy Program | Disclaimer | Information Quality Guidelines | Accessibility &times; Global Business Navigator Chatbot Beta Welcome to the Global Business Navigator, an artificial intelligence (AI) Chatbot from the International Trade Administration (ITA). This tool, currently in beta version testing, is designed to provide general information on the exporting process and the resources available to assist new and experienced U.S. exporters. The Chatbot, developed using Microsoft’s Azure AI services, is trained on ITA’s export-related content and aims to quickly get users the information they need. The Chatbot is intended to make the benefits of exporting more accessible by understanding non-expert language, idiomatic expressions, and foreign languages. Limitations As a beta product, the Chatbot is currently being tested and its responses may occasionally produce inaccurate or incomplete information. The Chatbot is trained to decline out of scope or inappropriate requests. The Chatbot’s knowledge is limited to the public information on the Export Solutions web pages of Trade.gov, which covers a wide range of topics on exporting. While it cannot provide responses specific to a company’s product or a specific foreign market, its reference pages will guide you to other relevant government resources and market research. Always double-check the Chatbot’s responses using the provided references or by visiting the Export Solutions web pages on Trade.gov. Do not use its responses as legal or professional advice. Inaccurate advice from the Chatbot would not be a defense to violating any export rules or regulations. Privacy The Chatbot does not collect information about users and does not use the contents of users’ chat history to learn new information. All feedback is anonymous. Please do not enter personally identifiable information (PII), sensitive, or proprietary information into the Chatbot. Your conversations will not be connected to other interactions or accounts with ITA. Conversations with the Chatbot may be reviewed to help ITA improve the tool and address harmful, illegal, or otherwise inappropriate questions. Translation The Chatbot supports a wide range of languages. Because the Chatbot is trained in English and responses are translated, you should verify the translation. For example, the Chatbot may have difficulty with acronyms, abbreviations, and nuances in a language other than English. Privacy Program | Information Quality Guidelines | Accessibility