Animals and Animal Products - Biosecurity Authority of Fiji Home | +679 331-2512 FORMS ALERTS ADVICE NOTICE Menu About Us About Us What We Do – Vacancies – Tenders/EOI – Emergency Declaration – BAF Board – Biosecurity Act – Executive Structure – Fees and Charges – Biosecurity Divisions & Sections – Protect Fiji from Invasive Ants Ants- we usually ignore them brushing them away as harmless; but they are a real nuisance especially when they get into the kitchen looking for food. Close Travel Travel Traveling to Fiji – Arriving into Fiji – Mailing Items to Fiji – Moving to Fiji – Airline – Ships & Vessels – Yachts – Food or Drink Inquiry – Information for Airline Operators – Bringing Cats, Dogs and Other Pets to Fiji – The Fruit Fly The Fruit Fly (Bactrocera ssp.) is native to Australia, but so far no breeding population has been established in New Zealand. Fruit flies are one of the most serious insect pests of horticultural produce throughout the tropical and sub-tropical world. Close Exporting Exporting BQA Commodities – Non BQA Commodities – Handicrafts and Artifacts – Kava – Live Animals – Meat and Meat Products – Export Pack House Requirement – The Giant Invasive Iguana The Giant Invasive Iguana (GII) scientifically known as Iguana iguana is an Invasive Alien Species (IAS) in Fiji. Close Importing Importing Animals and Animal Products – Plant & Plant Products – Biological Products – Dairy & Dairy Products – Aquatic Animal Products – What Happens To Your Imported Goods – Official Use of Methyl Bromide – Procedures for Sea Containers – Microorganisms – Genetic Materials – Import Requirement – Asian Subterranean Termites The Asian Subterranean Termites (Coptotermus gestro) are invasive alien species to Fiji. Parts of Lautoka and Labasa have been declared as Biosecurity Emergency Areas for Asian Subterranean Termites. Close TRADE FACILITATION Biosecurity Advice – Biosecurity Notice – Biosecurity Alerts – Close Media Weekly Articles – Press Releases – Photo Gallery – Videos – Download Forms – Fact Sheets – Close AST – Contact Us – Pay Online Search for: Search Button About Us Our Organisation Organisation Structure BAF Operation Post Border Monitoring & Surveillance Exports Border Biosecurity Act Biosecurity Notice Expression of Interest Fines Fees and Chargers Traveling to Fiji Personal Travelers Travel Within Fiji What Can I Do to Help BAF Information for Airline Operators Ships and Vessels Exports Export License Application Form Fruit Export and Marketing Act Guidelines for Pack house Imports Plant & Plant Products Animals and Animal Products Media Center Publications Posters Features Press Releases Speeches Forms Contact Us About Us Our Organisation Organisation Structure BAF Operation Post Border Monitoring & Surveillance Exports Border Biosecurity Act Biosecurity Notice Expression of Interest Fines Fees and Chargers Traveling to Fiji Personal Travelers Travel Within Fiji What Can I Do to Help BAF Information for Airline Operators Ships and Vessels Exports Export License Application Form Fruit Export and Marketing Act Guidelines for Pack house Imports Plant & Plant Products Animals and Animal Products Media Center Publications Posters Features Press Releases Speeches Forms Contact Us Animals and Animal Products Home Animals and Animal Products Animals and Animal Products The importation of animals and animal products is strictly regulated by the Biosecurity Authority of Fiji ( BAF ), which advises you to declare any animals or animal products, including processed products, in your possession upon arrival in Fiji or imported as unaccompanied cargo, including commercial, through sea, or air freight, including postal mails. Animal product is any article or substance derived from an animal, whether or not in combination with any other article or substance, and includes; meat, fat, milk, whey, cream, butter, cheese, eggs, and other foodstuffs derived from an animal; the dung, urine, faeces, saliva, bone, or blood of an animal, or any article or substance derived from the dung, urine, faeces, saliva, bone, or blood of an animal; the secretions of any animal; and Any product or biological preparation derived from any animal tissue or animal secretion. Matrix Animal and Animal Products Importation of Animals Fiji allows cats and dogs to be brought into Fiji under certain terms and conditions that must be fulfilled before arrival and while staying in Fiji. The reason for this, in particular cats and dogs, is that they may have come into contact with other animals carrying exotic animal pests and diseases, while staying in those countries or on their way to Fiji, including zoonotic diseases such as rabies which may pose a biosecurity threat as well as compromise human health. There are no established pathways to import other animals, apart from cats and dogs, as pets or for any other purposes into Fiji, and the importation of those animals is treated as severe non-compliance at the borders and will be subjected to application of strict biosecurity measures. For any commercial importation or transiting of live animals, including livestock, please contact the permit team at animalimports@baf.com.fj to know the import or transit requirements and if the import or transit specifications have been devised and established. All new requests for importing or transiting live animals are subjected to an import risk analysis process to devise import specifications based on the animal species and the country of import. Importation of Animal Products for Personal Consumption Fiji permits the importation of certain animal products for personal consumption, either accompanied by passengers or as unaccompanied cargo through sea or air freight. This applies to products from selected countries that meet Fiji’s established import specifications for commercial importation, unless otherwise specified. The imported animal products must originate from approved countries and comply with the import requirements set by the BAF. These requirements include, but are not limited to, weight restrictions. Import requirements are subject to change at any time based on the animal health situation of the exporting or manufacturing country. Any changes to these requirements will be communicated through Biosecurity Notices and Alerts . The BAF has reviewed and updated the import requirements for animal products from selected countries into Fiji for personal consumption. All importers must adhere to these import requirements. Unless otherwise advised by the BAF, restrictions will remain in place for the importation of animal products from all countries. Additionally, there are weight restrictions on the total allowance for personnel, with a collective weight limit of 10kg for all regulated products. Some animal products, including processed commodities, have specific weight restrictions. For further clarification, do not hesitate to contact the BAF Animal Permits team at BAF Headquarters at 3312512 or alternatively, by email: info@baf.com.fj and animalimports@com.fj . Importation of Animal Products for Commercial Purposes Any commercial quantities of animal products must be imported meeting certain import requirements before leaving the exporting country, while en route to Fiji, upon arrival, and after biosecurity clearance, as and when applicable. The import requirements are subject to change at any time based on the animal health situation of the exporting country or country of origin or manufacturing of the product, and the changes to the requirements will be notified through biosecurity Notices and Alerts . If you intend to import animal products for commercial purposes, please contact the permit team at animalimports@baf.com.fj to know the import requirements and if the import specifications have been devised and established. All new requests are subjected to an import risk assessment to devise import specifications based on the animal product and the country of origin of the raw animal ingredients, the country of manufacturing, and the country of exporting. Approved countries for the importation of certain animal products for personal consumption Notice on Personal and Commercial Importation of Condensed and Evaporated Milk Notice on the Importation of Noodle and Pasta Products into Fiji Notice for Bringing Cats and Dogs into Fiji Notice on the Importation of Nutritional Supplements and Infant Formula Notice on the Importation of Baked Products into Fiji Notice on the Importation of Sugar Confections into Fiji Contact Us Suva Headquarters Biosecurity Authority of Fiji (BAF) Level 3, Provident Plaza I, Ellery Street, Suva, Fiji Phone: (679) 3312512 Fax: (679) 3305043 Talk To The Team Email: info@baf.com.fj Employee Login Employee Self Service Webmail Travel Traveling to Fiji Arriving into Fiji Mailing Items to Fiji Moving to Fiji Export Live Animals Kava BQA Commodities Non BQA Commodities Handicrafts and Artifacts Customer Feedback Form Imports Animals and Animal Products Plant & Plant Product Media Weekly Articles Press Releases Photo Gallery Videos Download Forms About Us What We Do Biosecurity Divisions & Sections Vacancies Tenders/EOI Emergency Declaration BAF Board Biosecurity Act Follow Us © 2021 Biosecurity Authority of Fiji. All Rights Reserved. Developed By Webmedia South Pacific Translate »