Pet Travel From the United States to Kuwait | Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forms Careers Contact Us Search Search Menu Close Home Travelers Pet Travel Travel With a Pet Take a Pet From the United States to Another Country (Export) Bring a Pet From Another Country into the United States (Import) Take a Pet From One U.S. State or Territory to Another (Interstate) USDA-Accredited Veterinarians: Certifying Pets for International Travel Pet Travel From the United States to Mongolia Pet Travel From the United States to Bahrain Traveling With Food or Agricultural Products Traveling With Food or Agricultural Products Traveling From Another Country Traveling From Hawaii to the U.S. Mainland, Alaska, or Guam Traveling to U.S. Mainland From Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands Traveling into the United States From Canada at Land Borders Travel With a Pet Trade Imports Live Animal Imports Animal Product Imports Plant and Plant Product Imports Organism and Soil Imports Regulated Garbage Filing APHIS Core Message Set Data in ACE Exports Live Animal Exports Animal Product Exports Plant and Plant Product Exports Opening New Markets for U.S. Plant Commodities Trade Management International Standard Setting Agricultural Quarantine and Inspection Program Phytosanitary Issues Management Plant Health Commodity Trade Manuals Smuggling Interdiction and Trade Compliance User Fees Animal Health Regionalization and Compartmentalization Commenting Opportunities: Facilitating Safe Agricultural Trade Animals Animal Health Livestock and Poultry Disease Laboratory Information and Services National Veterinary Accreditation Program Veterinary Biologics Emergency Management SARS-CoV-2 H5N1 Influenza Commenting Opportunities: Animal Health Animal Welfare Animal Welfare Services and Activities Attending Veterinarians Commenting Opportunities: Animal Welfare Wildlife Requesting Wildlife Services Support Wildlife Services National Programs Wildlife Damage Research Activities Wildlife Damage Operational Activities Protected Resources Commenting Opportunities: Wildlife Services Defend the Flock Plants Plant Health Plant Pests and Diseases The Federally Recognized State Managed Phytosanitary Program Crop Biosecurity and Emergency Management Commenting Opportunities: Plant Health Biotechnology About Biotechnology Regulatory Services Biotechnology Regulations Legacy Petitions for Determination of Nonregulated Status Regulated Article Letters of Inquiry Release Permits for Pharmaceuticals, Industrials, Value Added Proteins for Human Consumption, or for Phytoremediation BRS Meetings Biotechnology Permits and Notifications Commenting Opportunities: Biotechnology Funding Funding Opportunities Open Funding Opportunities Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Dashboard Funding Opportunities Chronic Wasting Disease Management and Response Funding Opportunities Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) Poultry Innovation Grand Challenge National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program National Animal Health Laboratory Network Funding Opportunities New World Screwworm Grand Challenge PPA 7721: National Clean Plant Network PPA 7721: Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Prevention Program How To Apply for Funding About Our Agency About APHIS Mission Organization Tribal Relations One Health Leadership Program Areas Animal Care Biotechnology Regulatory Services International Services Plant Protection and Quarantine Veterinary Services Wildlife Services News and Media News and Updates APHIS In Action Image Gallery Publications Data Visualization Tools Policies and Regulations Laws and Regulations Privacy Act Peer Review Rulemaking at APHIS Forms Careers Contact Us Search Search Breadcrumb Home Travel With a Pet Take a Pet From The United States To Another Country (Export) Pet Travel From the United States to Kuwait Pet Travel From the United States to Kuwait Last Modified: September 23, 2025 Electronic Signature ACCEPTED; Original Ink Endorsement REQUIRED For Accredited Veterinarians: Electronic signature ACCEPTED For APHIS VMO: Original ink endorsement REQUIRED USDA-accredited veterinarians can electronically issue health certificates and use VEHCS (Veterinary Export Health Certification System) to submit them to USDA for endorsement. USDA must ink-sign and emboss the health certificate. What This Means for You Accredited Veterinarians: Use the links below to access or get help with VEHCS. Learn more about how to issue export health certificates . Animal Owners/Shippers: You can arrange to have your health certificate returned by mail (a prepaid, preaddressed return label must be provided during certificate submission). The endorsed health certificate—ink-signed and embossed—must accompany the animal(s) during shipment or travel. VEHCS Help | VEHCS Guide (7.77 MB) | VEHCS Login NOTE : APHIS endorsement is not required for Pet Dogs and Cats to Kuwait. Travel Requirements Based on Pet Type Carefully read ALL of the requirements related to your pet on this page. This page provides the most recent entry requirements and can change without notice. It is the responsibility of the veterinarian to make sure the pet has met all health requirements of the destination country before issuing a health certificate. Failure to meet the requirements may result in problems gaining certificate endorsement or difficulties upon arrival in the destination country. Health certificates must be legible, accurate, and complete. Expand All Collapse All Dogs and Cats The requirements for traveling with your pet are described in the provided health certificate. The health certificate must be issued by a licensed veterinarian. USDA endorsement is NOT required. Rabies vaccination must be obtained between 30 days and 1 year before the time of arrival. The veterinary health certificate should be dated within 30 days before arrival into Kuwait. Additional requirements for traveling with your pet are described in the health certificate. Veterinary Health Certificate (70.55 KB) Visit Kuwait Government online to learn more Turtles APHIS endorsement of the health certificate for turtles to Kuwait is required. The requirements for traveling with your pet are described in the health certificate Additional requirements for traveling with your pet are described in the health certificate. Veterinary Health Certificate (219.83 KB) Other Pets For pet travel requirements not listed, APHIS has not been officially informed by the foreign country about the requirements for your pet’s travel. We recommend that you contact a government official of the country you are traveling to for more information. Country of Destination Contact Information World Organisation for Animal Health: Members U.S. Department of State: Foreign Embassies and Consulates Countries Participating in the European Union Austria Belgium Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Republic of Ireland Italy Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Netherlands Northern Ireland * Norway ** Poland Portugal Romania Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland ** * Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom (UK), but will continue to follow European Union (EU) requirements even though the UK is no longer part of the EU. ** Norway and Switzerland are not part of the EU but have adopted EU legislation for import of most species of live animals. Important Travel Considerations Considerations for airline travel and cruises: Airlines and shipping lines have their own policies and requirements for transporting pets. Check with your airline or shipping representative to determine what requirements they may have. Learn how you can improve the safety of dogs and cats during air travel. View additional information for pet owners, airlines, and others about APHIS endorsement of international health certificates (239.52 KB) . If pets or support animals accompany you on a cruise, you must comply with entry rules for every country or port where your pet or support animal exits the ship. Will you be returning to the United States with your pet? View APHIS Requirements ALERT: CDC is the primary authority for dog imports. For requirements or questions about dogs entering or returning to the United States, visit the CDC website . If you are transiting (passing through) the European Union: If your pet is traveling through (transiting) a country in the European Union (EU) on the way to a third, non-EU country, you will also need a transit health certificate for your pet for the EU. The transit health certificate will be the same as if your pet’s final destination was the EU country. Use the information and steps above under “Travel Requirements Based on Pet Type” to determine which health certificate should be used. View a list of EU countries . See More See Less Need Help? Guidance for Pet Owners Read an overview of the process for taking your pet to another country and related resources. Frequently Asked Questions View frequently asked questions about traveling with your pet. Still Have Questions? USDA-Accredited Veterinarians Contact a USDA-accredited veterinarian for questions about your destination country's entry requirements for pets (including any needed vaccinations, tests, or treatments); issuance of health certificates; and status updates on certificate endorsement. Find a USDA-Accredited Veterinarian APHIS Endorsement Offices Contact APHIS Veterinary Export Trade Services if you have questions about endorsing an international pet health certificate. For quickest help, see tips for pet owners and accredited veterinarians . Generalist Team Veterinary Export Trade Services Email: askvets@usda.gov Helpful Links: Frequently Asked Questions About Pet Travel for Accredited Veterinarians Helpful Links: Frequently Asked Questions About Pet Travel for Accredited Veterinarians Pet Travel From the United States to Kuwait Contacts Looking for Another Country? Find your destination country requirements by using the dropdown menu below. If your country is not listed in the menu, visit Pet Travel: Unknown Requirements . Select Destination Country Select Destination Country Albania Algeria Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Bermuda Bolivia Botswana Brazil British Virgin Islands Bulgaria Burkina Faso Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cayman Islands Chile China Colombia Congo (Brazzaville) Costa Rica Croatia Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador England (Great Britain) Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France French Guyana Georgia Germany Ghana Great Britain Greece Grenada Guadeloupe Guatemala Guinea Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iraq Ireland Isle of Man (UK) Israel Italy Ivory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire) Jamaica Japan Kazakhstan Kenya Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Latvia Lebanon Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Malaysia Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritius Mexico Moldova Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Namibia Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Nigeria North Macedonia Northern Ireland Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Russian Federation Saudi Arabia Scotland (Great Britain) Senegal Serbia Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Maarten / St. Martin St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Türkiye Turks and Caicos Islands Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom (Great Britain) Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela Vietnam Wales (Great Britain) Go Print aphis.usda.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Legal Agricultural Commodity Import Requirements (ACIR) Animal Care Public Search Tool APHIS eFile Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance and Tracking System (PCIT) Veterinary Export Health Certification System (VEHCS) Veterinary Services Process Streamlining (VSPS) Resources Map and Data Disclaimer Accessibility Information Quality Non-Discrimination Plain Writing Privacy Anti-Harassment Program Areas FOIA Privacy Act Reasonable Accommodations Civil Rights Subscribe Stay updated on the latest news and stories from APHIS and all of our different focus areas. Subscribe twitter facebook rss instagram flickr youtube Contact us for support, or tell us how we're doing. USDA.gov Whitehouse.gov Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov Back to top