Shipping of Pets – Consulate General of Lebanon in New York Skip to the content Search Consulate General of Lebanon in New York قنصلية لبنان العامة في نيويورك Menu Home Consular Services Passports Visas Legalization of Documents Legalization of shipping documents Powers of Attorney Registration of Vital Events Palestinian Documents Shipping of Human Remains Reacquiring Lebanese Citizenship Shipping of Personal Effects to Lebanon Good Conduct/ Criminal Record Report Ikhraj Kayd/ ID Equivalent Forms Visit Lebanon Cultural Journal Contact Us Holiday Schedule News & Events Menu Search Search for: Close search Close Menu Home Consular Services .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Passports Visas Legalization of Documents Legalization of shipping documents Powers of Attorney Registration of Vital Events Palestinian Documents Shipping of Human Remains Reacquiring Lebanese Citizenship Shipping of Personal Effects to Lebanon Good Conduct/ Criminal Record Report Ikhraj Kayd/ ID Equivalent Forms Visit Lebanon Cultural Journal Contact Us Holiday Schedule News & Events Home Consular Services .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Passports Visas Legalization of Documents Legalization of shipping documents Powers of Attorney Registration of Vital Events Palestinian Documents Shipping of Human Remains Reacquiring Lebanese Citizenship Shipping of Personal Effects to Lebanon Good Conduct/ Criminal Record Report Ikhraj Kayd/ ID Equivalent Forms Visit Lebanon Cultural Journal Contact Us Holiday Schedule News & Events Facebook Email Shipping of Pets Shipping of Pets Pets can be shipped to Lebanon without the need to go through the Consulate. Requirements for pet travel from to Lebanon are: Pets should be microchipped. Pets must receive vaccinations against rabies and other contagious diseases. For dogs, necessary vaccinations include distemper, hepatitis, parvovirus, and leptospirosis. Cats should be vaccinated against panleukopenia, rhinotracheitis, and calicivirus. The pet owner needs to furnish a health certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian. This document should confirm the pet’s overall health, completion of required vaccinations, and absence of infectious ailments. The certificate must be completed within 10 days prior to the journey. Upon arrival, pet owners must secure an import permit from a customs officer. Check directly with your airlines/ shipper for any separate policies regarding pet travel. Facebook Email Contact Us Tel: (212) 744-7905 Fax: (212) 794-1510 E mail: info@nylebcons.org Visit Us Address 9 E. 76th St. New York, NY 10021 Hours Monday–Friday: 9:00AM–3:00PM Except for national holidays. &copy; 2026 Consulate General of Lebanon in New York Powered by WordPress To the top &uarr; Up &uarr;