Unknown Requirements of Pet Travel | APHIS Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forms Careers Contact Us Search Search Menu Close Home Travelers Pet Travel Travel With a Pet Take a Pet From the United States to Another Country (Export) Bring a Pet From Another Country into the United States (Import) Take a Pet From One U.S. State or Territory to Another (Interstate) USDA-Accredited Veterinarians: Certifying Pets for International Travel Pet Travel From the United States to Mongolia Pet Travel From the United States to Bahrain Traveling With Food or Agricultural Products Traveling With Food or Agricultural Products Traveling From Another Country Traveling From Hawaii to the U.S. Mainland, Alaska, or Guam Traveling to U.S. Mainland From Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands Traveling into the United States From Canada at Land Borders Travel With a Pet Trade Imports Live Animal Imports Animal Product Imports Plant and Plant Product Imports Organism and Soil Imports Regulated Garbage Filing APHIS Core Message Set Data in ACE Exports Live Animal Exports Animal Product Exports Plant and Plant Product Exports Opening New Markets for U.S. Plant Commodities Trade Management International Standard Setting Agricultural Quarantine and Inspection Program Phytosanitary Issues Management Plant Health Commodity Trade Manuals Smuggling Interdiction and Trade Compliance User Fees Animal Health Regionalization and Compartmentalization Commenting Opportunities: Facilitating Safe Agricultural Trade Animals Animal Health Livestock and Poultry Disease Laboratory Information and Services National Veterinary Accreditation Program Veterinary Biologics Emergency Management SARS-CoV-2 H5N1 Influenza Commenting Opportunities: Animal Health Animal Welfare Animal Welfare Services and Activities Attending Veterinarians Commenting Opportunities: Animal Welfare Wildlife Requesting Wildlife Services Support Wildlife Services National Programs Wildlife Damage Research Activities Wildlife Damage Operational Activities Protected Resources Commenting Opportunities: Wildlife Services Defend the Flock Plants Plant Health Plant Pests and Diseases The Federally Recognized State Managed Phytosanitary Program Crop Biosecurity and Emergency Management Commenting Opportunities: Plant Health Biotechnology About Biotechnology Regulatory Services Biotechnology Regulations Legacy Petitions for Determination of Nonregulated Status Regulated Article Letters of Inquiry Release Permits for Pharmaceuticals, Industrials, Value Added Proteins for Human Consumption, or for Phytoremediation BRS Meetings Biotechnology Permits and Notifications Commenting Opportunities: Biotechnology Funding Funding Opportunities Open Funding Opportunities Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Dashboard Funding Opportunities Chronic Wasting Disease Management and Response Funding Opportunities Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) Poultry Innovation Grand Challenge National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program National Animal Health Laboratory Network Funding Opportunities New World Screwworm Grand Challenge PPA 7721: National Clean Plant Network PPA 7721: Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Prevention Program How To Apply for Funding About Our Agency About APHIS Mission Organization Tribal Relations One Health Leadership Program Areas Animal Care Biotechnology Regulatory Services International Services Plant Protection and Quarantine Veterinary Services Wildlife Services News and Media News and Updates APHIS In Action Image Gallery Publications Data Visualization Tools Policies and Regulations Laws and Regulations Privacy Act Peer Review Rulemaking at APHIS Forms Careers Contact Us Search Search Breadcrumb Home Travel With a Pet Take a Pet From The United States To Another Country (Export) Pet Travel: Unknown Requirements Pet Travel: Unknown Requirements Last Modified: July 29, 2026 For pet travel requirements not listed, APHIS has not been officially informed by the foreign country about the requirements for your pet’s travel. We recommend you contact animal health officials from the country you are traveling to for more information. Country of Destination Contact Information Members—World Organisation for Animal Health (WOAH) U.S. Department of State—Contact Info for Foreign Embassies and Consulates Unable To Obtain Information? If you are unable to obtain information about pet travel requirements from the country you are traveling to, APHIS recommends your pet travel with a health certificate (for example, APHIS Form 7001 ) issued by your veterinarian. Although it may not be required, it is highly suggested that the health certificate be issued by a USDA-accredited veterinarian and endorsed by APHIS. For dogs, cats, and ferrets traveling, it is also recommended that you have proof of current rabies vaccination. Countries Participating in the European Union Austria Belgium Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Republic of Ireland Italy Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Netherlands Northern Ireland * Norway ** Poland Portugal Romania Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland ** * Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom (UK), but will continue to follow European Union (EU) requirements even though the UK is no longer part of the EU. ** Norway and Switzerland are not part of the EU but have adopted EU legislation for import of most species of live animals. Important Travel Considerations If you are transiting (passing through) the European Union: If your pet is traveling through (transiting) a country in the European Union (EU) on the way to a third, non-EU country, you will also need a transit health certificate for your pet for the EU. The transit health certificate will be the same as if your pet’s final destination was the EU country. Use the information above to determine which health certificate should be used. View a list of EU countries . Considerations for airline travel: Airlines and shipping lines have their own policies and requirements for transporting pets. Check with your airline or shipping representative to determine what requirements they may have. View additional information for pet owners, airlines, and others about APHIS endorsement of international health certificates (239.52 KB) Will you be returning to the United States with your pet? View the Requirements ALERT: Read the CDC Notice of Temporary Suspension of Dogs Entering the United States From Countries Classified as High Risk for Dog Rabies Information for Accredited Veterinarians "Green Banner" countries with otherwise unknown requirements: Azerbaijan Benin Guyana Fiji Liberia Tajikstan "Orange Banner" countries with otherwise unknown requirements: Bonaire Bosnia-Herzegovina Cuba Falkland Islands French Polynesia Haiti Jordan Moldova Mongolia New Caledonia Learn More For more information about the color-coded "banners" for destination countries, visit Veterinary Export Health Certification System (VEHCS) Help . See More See Less Print aphis.usda.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Legal Agricultural Commodity Import Requirements (ACIR) Animal Care Public Search Tool APHIS eFile Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance and Tracking System (PCIT) Veterinary Export Health Certification System (VEHCS) Veterinary Services Process Streamlining (VSPS) Resources Map and Data Disclaimer Accessibility Information Quality Non-Discrimination Plain Writing Privacy Anti-Harassment Program Areas FOIA Privacy Act Reasonable Accommodations Civil Rights Subscribe Stay updated on the latest news and stories from APHIS and all of our different focus areas. Subscribe twitter facebook rss instagram flickr youtube Contact us for support, or tell us how we're doing. USDA.gov Whitehouse.gov Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov Back to top