Animal Quarantine – Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service Email: contact@naqs.gov.ng +2348077778943, +2347056873120 Follow Us: HOME ABOUT US Comptroller General Our Offices Organisation Structure Service Level Agreement SOP SERVICES USER FEES ePhyto Application Prohibited Items LAWS AND REGULATIONS DEFAULT APPROVAL APPLICATION PROCESS Webmail Complaints/Feedback DEPARTMENTS MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENTS Animal Quarantine Plant Quarantine Aquatic Resources Quarantine Laboratory Management Services Planning, Research and Development Finance/Account Procurement Human Resources Management UNITS Media, Communication and Strategies Internal Audit Legal ICT MEDIA Frequently Asked Questions Trade Agreements Executive Order 001 Policies News Archive Press Releases Video Gallery Photo Gallery CONTACT US Press Release – Restoring Export Control at Ports of Entry Critical to Economic Diversification Animal Quarantine Regulate and control import and export of animals and animal products through quality assessment and certification in line with Internation best practices. Head of Department Emeka Asiegbu (Dr.) FCVSN Assistant Comptroller General Director Animal Quarantine Department Tel: +234 803 314 9852 E-mail: emeka.asiegbu@naqs.gov.ng hod.aq@naqs.gov.ng Animal Quarantine The Animal Quarantine Department exercises the veterinary functions of the Agency. It performs health inspection of export and import live animals, including dogs, cattle, cats, horses, sheep, goats, turkey, poulets/old chicks, eggs, parent stock and pet birds. It verifies import and export permits issued by the office of the Director, Federal Department of Livestock and Pest Control Services for the importation/exportation of animals and their products. It authenticates international veterinary certificate accompanying imported animals and their products (e.g talon, horn and hooves, blood meal, hatchable eggs, milk etc.) It also certifies veterinary health certificate which is a prerequisite for the acquisition of export permit and CITES permits from the Federal Ministry of Environment. The Department carries out surveillance for the presence of contagious animals and zoonotic diseases as well as other diseases of economic importance at all points of entry. It also inspects trade animals at designated quarantine control posts. It intercepts, seizes, quarantines (for 2-3 weeks) or destroys animals, animal products, day-old chicks, vaccines, sera, semen, embryo/ova and biogents suspected to carry contagious disease or found to have been illegally imported. Download Export Requirements Import Requirements Need Help? Please Feel Free To Contact Us. We Will Get Back To You Within 1-2 Business Days. contact@naqs.gov.ng info@naqs.gov.ng (234)8077778943 (234)8091333385 Plot 81, Ralph Shodeinde Street, Central Business District, Abuja Phone: (+234) 8077778943 Email: contact@naqs.gov.ng Payment Options External Links Phytosanitary Certificate NAQS eServices Report Complaints Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security National Agricultural Seed Council © 2024 Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service