Taking Pets to Nepal | Embassy of Nepal, London मुख्य सामग्रीमा जानुहोस् Government of Nepal Embassy of Nepal, London 12A Kensington Palace Gardens, W8 4QU, London भाषा चयन गर्नुहोस् NEP ENG Search मुख्य नेभिगेसनमा जानुहोस् Important Notice Press Release on Nepal-UK Economic Partnership Forum 2026 आयरल्याण्डमा आयोजना हुन लागेको राहदानी तथा कन्सुलर सेवा सम्बन्धी घुम्ती शिविर बारे जरुरी सूचना Urgent Notice Regarding the Passport Services During the Interim Period स्पोन्सरसिप/वर्क भिसा (Work Visa) सम्बन्धी ठगी बाट सचेत रहन नेपाली राजदूतावासको अनुरोध For International Observers to observe "House of Representatives Election, 2026" of Nepal Notice on the closer of the Embassy भौतिक पूर्वाधार पुनर्निर्माण कोषमा योगनदान गर्नुहुन नेपाल सरकारको अनुरोध आयरल्याण्डमा संचालन हुने राहदानी सेवा सहितको कन्सुलर शिविरबारे जरुरी सूचना Notice on the closer of the Embassy Notice of Embassy Closure for National Mourning Press release regarding the current situation of Nepal Press Release on the Nepal-UK Tech Forum Press Release on the Presentation of the Letters of Credence by H. E. Mr. Chandra Kumar Ghimire, Ambassador of Nepal to the United Kingdom H.E. Mr. Chandra Kumar Ghimire paid a courtesy call on the Rt. Hon. Sir Lindsay Hoyle, the Speaker of the House of Commons आयरल्याण्डमा संचालन हुने राहदानी सेवा सहितको कन्सुलर शिविरबारे जरुरी सूचना Press Release Urgent Notice Regarding the Embassy’s Mobile Camp for Passport Service in the Cayman Islands गैरआवासीय नेपाली नागरिकता प्राप्त व्यक्तिलाई प्रदान गर्न सकिने सम्पत्तिको अधिकार सम्बन्धी सर्वेक्षण Press Release- Interaction Program on Trade and Investment Potentials A.D.: Nepal Samvat: 1146 GULATHWA DWADASHI - 12 ABOUT US About Embassy Diplomatic Staff Embassy Holidays Office Hours SERVICES Visa Passport Power of Attorney Non Resident Nepali ID One Way Travel Document Vital registration (Birth & Death) Police Clearance Certificate Repatriation of Dead Body Repatriation of Human Remains Document Attestation Renouncement of Nepali citizenship certificate Taking Pets to Nepal Demand Letter Attestation BILATERAL RELATIONS Nepal-UK Relations Nepal-Ireland Relations ECONOMIC DIPLOMACY Trade In Nepal Investment in Nepal Tourism in Nepal Culture and society of Nepal MEDIA CENTER Press Release Events Notices CONTACT US Search Submit भाषा चयन गर्नुहोस् NEP ENG भाषा परिवर्तन गर्नुहोस् DOWNLOADS OLD WEBSITE मुख्य नेभिगेसनमा जानुहोस् Notice For International Observers to observe "House of Representatives Election, 2026" of Nepal ABOUT US About Embassy Diplomatic Staff Embassy Holidays Office Hours SERVICES Visa Passport Power of Attorney Non Resident Nepali ID One Way Travel Document Vital registration (Birth & Death) Police Clearance Certificate Repatriation of Dead Body Repatriation of Human Remains Document Attestation Renouncement of Nepali citizenship certificate Taking Pets to Nepal Demand Letter Attestation BILATERAL RELATIONS Nepal-UK Relations Nepal-Ireland Relations ECONOMIC DIPLOMACY Trade In Nepal Investment in Nepal Tourism in Nepal Culture and society of Nepal MEDIA CENTER Press Release Events Notices CONTACT US DOWNLOADS OLD WEBSITE Taking Pets to Nepal A A (C3) Taking Pets to Nepal Application letter addressed to the Embassy with flight details Copy of passport of the applicant Copy of health certificate, rabies vaccination certificate of the concerned pet Application fee: &pound;40.00 (Effective from 17 July 2018). Processing time: Same day If you are applying by post remember to enclose self addressed return envelope. Card Payment (Visa Debit/Credit, Master Card Debit/Credit, All Maestro cards) is acceptable. For the applicants, sending their application by post, a Virtual Payment (Visa Debit/Credit, Master Card Debit/Credit, All Maestro cards) link will be sent to the applicant"s email once the documents are received at the Embassy. They are also requested to enclose a self addressed non-expiring prepaid envelope as per necessity with the application. Please do not enclose a postal order or a bank draft for the payment now onwards. Basic documentation (information) on taking pets to Nepal: a) A health certificate of the pet (the certificate should be issued within 10 days of your arrival in Nepal). It will be valid for 30 days. Another health certificate can be produced in Nepal. b) A Rabies vaccination Card. c) The owner of the pet should inform the Animal Quarantine Office in Nepal about the time they are arriving at the TIA airport, 72 hours prior to their arrival . So they need to send an email with the copies of their arrival time in Nepal (flight details), applicant"s passport copy, health certificate and rabies vaccine card at ktmquarantine@gmail.com . d) If they wish to talk to anybody there, they can call at +977-9840012505, +977-9851092041, and +977-9858051808 e) If they wish to get a recommendation letter from the Embassy, they can submit an application with the above mentioned documents. But it is not mandatory. f) The Animal Quarantine Office can be contacted for more information. For more information, please contact us on 02072291594 or email: consular@nepembassy.org.uk Government of Nepal Embassy of Nepal, London 12A Kensington Palace Gardens, W8 4QU, London Office hours जाडो (कार्तिक १६ देखि माघ १५) Monday - Friday 900 - 1300, 1400 - 1700 hrs गर्मी (माघ १६ देखि कार्तिक १५) Monday - Friday 900 - 1300, 1400 - 1700 hrs Important Links Ministry of Foreign Affaires Department of Immigration Ministry of Home Affairs Department of Customs Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers Office of the President of Nepal Department of Passports Department of Consular Services National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission 12A Kensington Palace Gardens, W8 4QU, London info@nepembassy.org.uk 004402072291594 Toll free no 2072291594