Directorate General of Customs - Veterinary Permit to Import Dogs and Cats --> 80080022 968-22848232+ Customs عـربي + - Home About Us News Media Center Report incident Contact Us استمع Veterinary Permit to Import Dogs and Cats Home business services Permit Veterinary Permit to Import Dogs and Cats Veterinary Permit to Import Dogs and Cats Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries Wealth & Water Resources / Veterinary Quarantine Department Beneficiary Importers & Exporters. Permit Terms Obtaining a PRIOR veterinary permit (before the arrival of the pet) to import pets (dogs and cats)، through the Customs Bayan System, accompanied by the following documents A record of the pet's immunizations, from the date of its birth. Photo of the pet on the immunization record. The electronic microchip identified for the pet on the immunization record. Blood test to calibrate rabies antibodies, from an accredited laboratory. Import conditions necessary to obtain a prior veterinary permit, which are compatible with the recommendations of the World Organization for Animal Health WOAH-OIE: The pet (dogs and cats) must be immunized against rabies after completing 12 weeks of age, and no more than 12 months have passed since the date of its immunization when imported. The pet (dogs and cats) must be more than four months old. To draw a blood sample to calibrate the immune bodies 21-30 days after the last rabies immunization (RNATT or FAVN). The period from the date of issuance of the results of the RNATT or FAVN should not be less than three months, and not more than 12 months when exporting the pet. In the case of importing dogs, the imported species should not be included in the list of species prohibited from being imported in accordance with Resolution 222/2019 (attached): PITBULL STAFFORSHIRE TERRIER AMERICAN BULLY MASTIF FILA BARASILERIO DOG ARGENTIO JAPANESE TOSA ROTTWEILER DOBERMAN PINSCHER PRESA CANARIA BOXER BOERBOEL CAUCASIAN SHEPHERD DOG ANATOLIAN KARABASH GREAT DANE Any mixed breed of above mentioned breeds of dogs Required Documents Upon arrival at the port (land - sea - air cargo / passengers): A veterinary permit to import the pet. A government veterinary health certificate from the country of export. Passport/immunization record. A certificate from an accredited laboratory for the calibration of rabies immunoglobulins. Processing time Approval of the permits shall be within two hours of the application, during the official working hours and for seven days a week (All days). Release of Shipment round the clock, non-stop 24 hours; i.e. the release of the shipment submitted shall be within two hours of submitting the goods for the inspection of the relevant authority. Application fees OMR 20 Related Links Pre-advance value services before imports Import of used vehicles, motorcycles and classic vehicles Import of goods and personal effects Advance Rulings Authorized Economic Operator Search Import and Export Requirements: Permit Calculating Customs Duty Services procedural services Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Disclaimer © Royal Oman Police - Directorate General of Customs . All Rights Reserved Email: info@customs.gov.om