Get a Veterinary Permit to Import Animals Shipment - Gov.om Skip to Main Content Get a Veterinary Permit to Import Animals Shipment Coming soon Introducing THEQA on Gov.om. Your trusted digital identity to sign in and access the government services. Download THEQA App → ← Menu Search Search Gov.om Search Bar Search Bar Language Selector العربية Sign in Menu Display Home Services News Entities Govthon OMAN Vision 2040 Help & support Tajawob Sign Language Visual Library How to sign in 2564300 2564302 Breadcrumb Home Get a Veterinary Permit to Import Animals Shipment Get a Veterinary Permit to Import Animals Shipment Get a Veterinary Permit to Import Animals Shipment This service enables you to get a veterinary permit to import an animal shipment. Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries Wealth & Water Resources Updated: July 02, 2026 You are starting the service as: Personal account gup-business-account-label Required documents 1. Commercial Register 2. Civil ID or Resident Card 3. Farm or Facility License 4. Health Documents (Depending on the Type of Permit) - Some health certificates are accompanied by the inspection service within a period not exceeding 48 hours: • Vaccinations • Blood tests • Government veterinary health certificate • Quarantine certificate for live animals • Halal slaughter certificates • Accreditation of veterinary quarantines in the exporting country • Accreditation of slaughterhouses • Accreditation of pharmaceutical companies • Facility license (local) • Accreditation of factories • Accreditation of farms • Drug analysis certificates • Manufacturing quality certificates • Vaccination passports • Certificate of no objection from the Environment Authority (local) • Certificate of freedom of circulation • Certificate of origin Service fees Show Hide 13. Permit for importing animal waste and tools 13. Permit for importing animal waste and tools 10 1. Veterinary permit to import dogs and cats 1. Veterinary permit to import dogs and cats 20 2. Veterinary permit for importing live animals (cows, sheep, goats and camels) 2. Veterinary permit for importing live animals (cows, sheep, goats and camels) 5 3. Veterinary permit for importing wild animals and birds 3. Veterinary permit for importing wild animals and birds 20 4. Veterinary permit for importing horses 4. Veterinary permit for importing horses 20 5. Veterinary permit for importing reptiles and amphibians 5. Veterinary permit for importing reptiles and amphibians 20 6. Veterinary permit for importing poultry 6. Veterinary permit for importing poultry 5 7. Veterinary permit for importing live fish and their products and ornamental fish 7. Veterinary permit for importing live fish and their products and ornamental fish 20 8. Veterinary permit for importing animal products 8. Veterinary permit for importing animal products 5 Service steps 1 The beneficiary submits the application through Bayan system 2 Review of the application 3 Approval 4 Payment of fees 5 Issuance of the permit electronically Show All Steps Special conditions 2. The commodity, its type, classification, quantity, origin, and weight must be determined 3. If it is an individual, the civil card (citizen) or resident card is required 4. Vehicle ownership (owned by the individual or the company) 5. A positive result for the risk analysis 6. It meets the health requirements for importing accompanying goods (licensed farm or licensed facility to deal with these types of animals, licensed establishments (depending on the type of permit): • Pet stores • Live birds • Circus show • Zoo • Aquarium 7. Completion of health documents (all from outside the Sultanate) which are (based on the type of permit): • Vaccines • Blood tests • Government veterinary health certificate • Quarantine certificate for living animals • Halal certificates • Approving veterinary quarantine in the exporting country • Approving slaughterhouses • Approving pharmaceutical companies • Approving factories • Facility license (local) • Approving farms • Medicines analysis certificates • Manufacturing quality certificates • vaccine passport • No objection letter from the Environment Authority (local) • Trading freedom certificate • Certificate of Origin 1. If it is a company, a commercial registration with a commercial activity to import accompanying goods is required Service Locations Service 24.0 Hours Varying Cost Start now Start now Start now By clicking “Start now” you will leave Gov.om and be taken to the service provider's website Start now By clicking “Start now” you will leave Gov.om and be taken to the service provider's website Visit website By selecting 'Visit website' you will leave the Gov.om and be redirected to the entity portal Start now By clicking “Start now” you will leave Gov.om and be taken to the service provider's website Thank you for your feedback. Are you satisfied with this page? Yes No Report a problem with this page Help us improve Gov.om Don’t include personal or financial information What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Thank you Thank you for taking the time to participate in this survey. Return to homepage Emergency Numbers in Footer Emergency numbers View all numbers Emergency 9999 Water emergency 1442 Electricity emergency 80070008 Service categories Available Services - Footer Education and research Family and Parenting Licenses and permits Housing and Real Estate Environment Justice Jobs and Occupations Retirement Citizenship and Living in Oman Tourism Public Health and Safety Business and investment Benefits Labor Digital OMAN Menu Display Home News Entities Sign Language Visual Library National Open Data Portal E-Participation Digital Fraud Reporting "Turs" Youtube Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat Linkedin Linkedin Menu Display About FAQ Contact us Accessibility Sitemap ePayment gateway Policy & Terms ePayment gateway FAQs Privacy Policy & Terms Guidelines and Policies Design System Feedback Hub © 2025 Gov.om GUP Chatbot Hidden