Animal Health and Livestock Research Division - Ministry of Fisheries, Agriculture and Blue Economy Welcome to the Official Website of the Ministry of Fisheries, Agriculture and Blue Economy WEBMAIL Home About Us Executive Departments Department of Fisheries Department of Blue Economy Agriculture Department Animal Health and Livestock Research Division Animal Welfare Unit Plant Health and Crop Research Policy Planning, Research, Monitoring & Evaluation Section Extension Services Border Control and Support Division Programmes FiTI SWIOFish3 Joint Management Area (JMA) of the Extended Continental Shelf Resources Fisheries and Related Policies Plans and Strategies Fisheries Legislations and Regulations Agreements & Other Documents Media News Contact Us Animal Health and Livestock Research Division Livestock Research Section Vision To have 80% to 100% of pork and poultry meat consumed to be produced locally as soon as possible. Mission To provide advice and technical support to farmers to enhance national livestock production for Seychelles to become a self-sufficient country. Objective To work in close collaboration with the stakeholders concerns to legalize maximum of the livestock applications. Work closely with all legal farmers to produce on a commercial level as high as possible and in accordance with the rules and regulations. Services offered by the “Livestock Research Section” 👥 Do Livestock Production Committee visit to new applicants for livestock business After receiving the applicant’s application, organise visit along with the other stakeholders concerns to analyse if the land is suitable for livestock development. ✅ Do follow- up of the Livestock Production Committee reports from the stakeholders. Send emails and do follow up for the stakeholder’s report. Help the farmer with the appeal application if necessary. Write letter on whether the application has been approved or not to the farmer and copy all party’s concerns for official use. 🪪 Issue livestock permit to farmers that their business application has been approved After the applicant receive their approval letter then a livestock permit is given to facilitate the applicant in all its necessities in regards to the business. Permit can be temporary cancelled if for example bio-security rules are not being followed. Monitoring of the farm is done to be able to re-issue the permit. 💰 Give feed subsidy Assess the farms and keep updating the Farmers List to receive subsidy. Send the list to all feed companies to facilitate the farmers when buying the feed. 🐖 Sell breeding pigs to legal Pig farmers After the selection of pigs is done at the Pig Genetic Centre Farmers that have put their request to are contacted to buy pigs to do reproduction on their farms. 💉 Do Artificial Insemination to farms Collect semen from male pigs at the Pig Genetic Centre, transport it to pig farms to administered it in female pigs to the farms that have made the request. 🚜 Routine field visits Organize and do routine visit to all livestock farms in the country on a quarterly basis to collect data, do monitoring of the production, check bio-security status and advice the farmer. 📋 Livestock registration Help in the process of farmer’s registration. Produce the routine visit report and fill the registration form to facilitate the procedure. 📊 Quarterly reporting of livestock performance in general Collect and compile local data to see our progress and where things can be improved in the livestock sector. Comparison are also made between local meat data and imported meat data, for decision to be taken towards self-sufficiency. 📚 Scientific, Guidelines and general information for farmers Ensure that the all farmers are aware of the guidelines before starting a livestock business. All research work result is passed on to the farmers through workshops. Information are also given at time by radio, television or through articles published in the Nation newspaper. Student studying agriculture also benefit from the information. ⚠️ Complaint visit along with Public Health After receiving the complaint, organize visit to the location with Public Health and other stakeholders to assess the situation and take decision. 🧾 Do initial report for livestock loan application and monitor the farm development. Organize visit to the applicant farm to fill loan forms. After disbursement of loan monitor the implementation of the loan on the farm. 🏭 Assess Abattoir performance for subsidy procedures Be at the abattoir to monitor slaughtering. Collect the data to do paper work and input in computer for the subsidy disbursement to the party’s concerns. Contact Us Maison Collet, 2nd Floor, Palm Street, Victoria, Mahe, P.O Box 408 Republic of Seychelles info@mofbe.gov.sc Phone: +248 4672300 Useful Links Office of the President eGov Seychelles Portal Ministry of Health Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Tourism Ministry of Environment, Climate, Energy and Natural Resources Seychelles Maritime Safety Authority Seychelles Maritime Academy Quick Links Seychelles Fisheries Authority Seychelles Port Authority Seychelles Marine Spacial Plan Initiative Seychelles Conservation and Climate Adaptation Trust (SeyCCAT) Nature Seychelles Seychelles Seatizens © 2026 Ministry of Fisheries, Agriculture and Blue Economy